what is social proof and why the heck
does your website need it
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the podcast business growth
show all right so first off let's jump
in with a very literal definition
of what social proof is taken from
wikipedia social proof
is a psychological and social phenomenon
wherein people copy the actions of
others
in an attempt to undertake behavior in a
given situation
so the term is coined by robert cl dini
i'm sure i've butchered that in his 1984
book
influence and the concept is also known
as informational
social influence so
taking from that we're talking about the
practice of
seeing perhaps individuals or businesses
who have been in your shoes
who have perhaps uh have done something
you're looking to do
or reviewed something you're looking to
check out um
been there done that got the t-shirt so
we're seeing examples of
others that have been where we want to
go and kind of giving us that
proof that evidence that it maybe is
something we want to do ourselves when
we move that into a business standpoint
so one way i like to
compare your website is to a salesperson
so ultimately if you're dealing with a
sales professional
you're not going to buy from them unless
you trust
that they can actually help you get the
job done they you trust that they can
help
fix a problem that you've got a pain
you've got or they can make your life
better
with the product or the service that
they are
offering so often way salespeople do
this
is perhaps you're talking to someone
about upgrading your car
so let's say you've maybe got a vehicle
that's maybe it's a rusty old banger
um maybe it only fits two people in
comfortably
and you've just had perhaps a baby
so you're looking for something a bit
more reliable a bit more secure um
something that's gonna fit your family
and
and not conk out on you ultimately um so
perhaps after
giving this spiel to your salesperson he
understands this
he says great i actually had someone
just last week
with the the same issue so their car was
really unreliable it was conking out
most days they actually had to spend a
lot of money at the garage
um so it was getting them really
frustrated they were spending a lot of
money on all the mechanics
um and it was really causing them a lot
of hassle especially as the fact they
couldn't fit their family
all in the car comfortably so we
recommend this vehicle because it's much
more modern it's much more spacious it's
within your price bracket
um this family just over here took one
last week they gave us this really good
review here's the review they gave us
here's the testimonial so you're
literally giving examples
of people that have been in their shoes
and perhaps giving you a testimonial
review or in this case sharing a story
that's factual to build confidence
um with people about the service or
product that you're discussing
so taking this to spinning this to a
website
how can you in utilize this into your
website how can we
utilize social proof to build trust
with people that are perhaps viewing our
products viewing our services
and we want to convert from just
browsing on our website
we want to really build trust with them
and convert them into a potential
customer so someone that's going to
inquire with us give us a call or if
we're e-commerce
then we want them to to actually make
the sale so a number of ways
one is review so perhaps you can
integrate things like reviews from maybe
trustpilot google reviews
plenty of other review tools out there
collect all your customer reviews make
sure you're asking them for five star
reviews
talking about the problem they came to
you with um
why they chose you amongst your
competitors and what stood out about you
how you specifically help them fix their
problem or make their life better and
what it's like now you've um
you've resolved the issue perhaps video
testimonials again use the above form
that i've just talked about as that's
literally someone there in front of the
screen naming you
name your company and how you help them
get the job done not a lot stronger than
that
case studies so maybe you could use
stories like i just told
you examples again videos perhaps you
could do a case study section
page for each project you delivered with
photos
examples of how the problem was fixed
how you got the job done
accreditations so if you typically work
with businesses
in certain sectors you can give um
perhaps put their logos of companies
you've helped
to build trust as people will view that
you've helped companies similar to
theirs
in their sector stories we've covered
podcast interviews
podcasts are great you can interview
your existing customers or your past
customers and again
cover all these points about how you
help them with their issues how you help
them get the job done
it's then recorded and it's evergreen
content so you can use that as a video
on your site
post it to youtube post it to a podcast
repurpose it into blogs that's the great
thing about podcast interviews they've
got so much
replay value so all of these things
when someone's browsing through your
website
it's essentially building up layers of
trust because if you've just got a
static website
that's perhaps just information pages
kind of examples of what you do
um details about your product your
service and then maybe some inquiry
forms or click to calls or if your
e-commerce of course your products and
then options to add to cart or purchase
that's okay but how are you gonna cater
for the people that are on the fence
the people that aren't quite sure if
they're ready to do business with you
by seeing these reviews by seeing these
testimonials
by seeing the problems you fix i'm an
ecommerce you might say look
charles recently purchased this from
denver
america so just seeing those little
triggers
all these little um social proof
elements build up those layers of trust
that convert someone from just browsing
to taking the action taking that leap
and doing business with you generating
you a lead or a sale
so there you have it that is my summary
of social proof and how it can help you
with your website
if you've got any feedback would love to
hear it in the comments below
but otherwise do hit subscribe to catch
episodes each and every week
to help you with your website and
digital marketing and we'll catch you
next time